# The Science of Change
#### 18 July 2024

Change as a concept in the historical sense is, as I would describe it, the action of certain groups of people to alter the state of politics in a region because of the profound need championed by that group to enact policy. Change can be expected, it is the culmination of multiple issues that then just create one big change. An example is the Scottish National Party in the United Kingdom. The SNP wasn't a new, novel idea, but the culmination of multiple issues regarding Scotland and Scottish independence, that then formed into its own party. Change can also be unexpected, which I like to dissect to two different categories: Natural Unexpected Change and Unnatural Unexpected Change. Natural unexpected change is basically changed the *might* happen, but we are never sure until it does, there is never a date of when it will happen, we just know that it will happen, *eventually*. I will give two examples: Rishi Sunak calling the [British General Election](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_United_Kingdom_general_election). We knew that Rishi Sunak will call a general election, but we never knew when he did, and most of our estimates it would be in August, no one, expect him knows why he called the election in June, and it still feels like a mystery. There is also a more recent development: [the dropping out of incumbent candidate Joe Biden out of the 2024 Presidential Election](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Withdrawal_of_Joe_Biden_from_the_2024_United_States_presidential_election). Everyone knew that it was *likely* to happen, but no one knew when it would actually happen, that is why it caused a ruckus when it actually happened. Then they are truly unexpected events, like the [Cuban Missile Crisis](https://www.britannica.com/event/Cuban-missile-crisis), no one knew that the Soviets were actually putting nuclear warheads in Cuba, and when it was known, it almost caused war.

Change is a something that will always remain in our lives, from the advancement of Science to the new economic theories or businesses disrupting the current environment to people accepting certain kinds of people, Change will forever be a part of us. Change is primarily caused by the need of certain groups of people to enact a change in the way that they are governed, A common example is France, as the Ancien Régime had caused an increasingly bigger middle class to get mad because they never got real representation, causing the French Revolution. This is why I would say change is important, because it can alter the way people think for centuries to come, especially gradual change, this is what after the fall of Nazi Germany, a poll done at the time say that they would rather go back to the authoritarian regime, not because they hated people or liked autocracy, its just that the change that was experienced before was better than the change that was there then.

Change itself cannot be historical, but its methods can. The rise of the printing press caused the once small conspiracy of people controlling the information because they were literate to much more people critiquing their governments, causing change. It allowed new ideas to spread across the world, making the theories of development that we are used to enlightening a new generation of people, causing change. The industrial revolution reinvented Industry and manufacture, causing more people to demand change in their government, this is show with the Reform Act of 1832 in Britain and the Zollverein in Germany caused the unification of the country. The radio caused ideas to be streamed too much to people over short distances and made people communicate with each other much faster.

Well, what is change going to be like now? It is hard to say, but with the proliferation of the Internet, that speed ran the globalization of people and increased English adoption in the world. It is like the printing press and the radio bundled into one, creating a large but steady invention and reinvention of Political and Economic theories of man. But these changes can also fail. Change fails when it is done against the will of the people and is done over a short time. This was seen with Hungary in 1956; A government installed by another government and used to persecute them would never last, as people want to make their own decisions, it also explains the French Revolutions pre-Napoleon, they were short, deliberate and no one actually wanted them. Change succeeds when it is done in the current system and is familiar and popular with most people, especially the powerful people. Successful change is realistic, goals-based and accountable to the people that enacted change.

The best way to enact change, therefore, is through comprehensive, democratic and long-reaching ways that can make people familiar to the change that is happening, and still make it feel different. You have seen it with multiple companies, as they still make a better product, but they never seem to want to reinvent the wheel. It is too expensive and makes their customers disinterested, leaving only the fanatics onboard. I am not saying government should be run like a company, but change, done deliberating and democratically, will last longer.

